docs/courses/skill.md, before:

# LibreLingo Documentation on Skill

A **Skill** resides below a Module within the course structure. It's the lowest element in the course hierarchy. It contains data regarding what questions LibreLingo will ask the users.

A skill is usually centered around a specific theme. This could be introducing a new grammar concept or just vocabulary to talk about a certain topic.

To get a better understanding, you can read the [course basics](README.md#basics).

---

**Confused?**
[Ask people](https://github.com/kantord/LibreLingo/discussions) on GitHub Discussions.

---

**Table of Contents:**
- [Tree structure](#tree-structure)
- [`(skill_name).yaml`](#yaml)
- [Data breakdown](#data-breakdown)
- [Creating new skills](#creating-new)
- [Examples of editing a skill](#example-edit)
- [Tips for creating good skills](#tips)
- [`(skill_name).md`](#markdown)

## Tree structure

A typical tree structure for skills under a module is as follows:

```
courses/spanish-from-english/basics/skills/
├── animals.yaml
├── clothes.yaml
├── food.yaml
├── nature.yaml
├── plurals.yaml
├── professions.yaml
├── verb_plurals.yaml
└── verbs.yaml
```

Here, `animals.yaml`, `clothes.yaml` and `food.yaml` etc. are skills. These skill files are kept inside a `skills` folder. The YAML files contain information about the skill (see below).

Skill yaml filenames should not have spaces and should be written in `slug-form`. The human friendly `Name` in the yaml however, can contain uppercase and spaces.

<a id="yaml"></a>
## `(skill_name).yaml`

As an example, let's look into `courses/french-from-english/basics/skills/hello.yaml` file which looks like this:

```yaml
Skill:
  Id: 33bfee7d-de74-4362-bf15-ce165add2dc8
  Name: Hello
  Thumbnails:
    - people1
    - woman1
    - man1

New words:
  - Word: l'homme
    Translation: the man
    Images:
      - man1
      - man2
      - man3

  - Word: la femme
    Synonyms:
      - la dame
    Translation: the woman
    Also accepted:
      - the female

Phrases:
  - Phrase: La femme dit bonjour
    Alternative versions:
      - la femme dit salut
    Translation: The woman says hello
    Alternative translations:
      - The woman says hi

  - Phrase: L'homme dit bonjour
    Alternative versions:
      - L'homme dit salut
    Translation: The man says hello
    Alternative translations:
      - The man says hi

Mini-dictionary:
  French:
    - dit: says
    - bonjour:
        - hello
        - hi
    - L'homme: the man

  English:
    - says: dit
    - hello:
        - bonjour
        - salut
```

### Data breakdown

**`Skill`** has information about the skill.
- `Skill > Name`: The human friendly name of the skill.
- `Skill > Id`: The ID of the course. **NOTE:** This should be unchanged if you're translating or editing existing course. Only if you're creating a new course, this should have a unique [UUID v4](https://www.uuidgenerator.net/version4) string. Details for which you can find [here](creating-courses.md).
- `Skill > Thumbnails`: A list of filenames of the thumbnails to be used on the course page to give an idea of the skill. A list of available files can be found on [`apps/web/static/images/`](https://github.com/kantord/LibreLingo/tree/main/apps/web/static/images). The names should be used without extension and without `_tiny` or `_tinier` parts. e.g. `banana2_tinier.jpg` should be written as `banana2`.

**`New words`** has a list of new words that the lesson asks about.
- `Word`: The word in destination language.
- `Synonyms`: A list of synonyms of the above word. (optional)
- `Translation`: Translation of the word in target audience's language.
- `Also accepted`: A list of synonyms of the `Translation` word above. (optional)
- `Images`: A list of images for the word that is defined under `Word` or `Translation` above. The image names has to be without extension and without `_tiny` or `_tinier` part.

**`Phrases`** has a list of sentences or phrases that the lession asks about.
- `Phrase`: The phrase in destination language. e.g. In this case, it's written in Spanish.
- `Alternative versions`: An alternative version of the above phrase. (optional)
- `Translation`: Translation of the phrase in target audience's language. e.g. In this case, it's written in English.

**`Mini-dictionary`** has a list of words and meanings. [TODO: Explain where and how it is used]
- `<destination language>`: A list of words in destination language as key and meaning in target audience's language.
- `<target audience's language>`: A list of words in target audience's language as key and meaning in destination language.

<a id="creating-new"></a>
## Creating new skills

Creating new skills is a matter of creating their corresponding YAML file.
That being said, there are a couple things to keep in mind:

- Skill yaml file should be inside a [module](module.md)'s `skills` directory.
- Skills should have an unique `Id`. Such identifiers can be generated using
  [this website](https://www.uuidgenerator.net/version4).
- Before skills will actually show up in the web app, they need to be added to
  a [`module.yaml`](module.md#yaml).

<a id="example-edit"></a>
## Examples of editing a skill

This is how you'd add a new alternative version to the
phrase "La femme dit bonjour":

```diff
Phrases:
  - Phrase: La femme dit bonjour
    Alternative versions:
      - La femme dit salut
+     - La madame dit salut
    Translation: The woman says hello
    Alternative translations:
      - The woman says hi
```

Keep in mind that when you add a new phrase, or a new version or translation
to a phrase, it's not automatically updating to the mini-dictionary. So you need to
add any new words there:

```diff
Mini-dictionary:
  French:
    - dit: says
+   - madame: lady
    - bonjour:
      - hello
      - hi
    - L'homme: the man
```

Also note, that the new words from each phrase listed under `Phrases` key need to be added for both the source and the target language in the `Mini-dictionary`. For example:

```yaml
Mini-dictionary:
  French:
    - dit: says
    - bonjour:
      - hello
      - hi
...
  English:
    - says: dit
    - hello:
      - bonjour
      - salut
```

Don't worry about listing the same word more than once in a course. It will not cause any issues if you do so.

<a id="tips"></a>
## Tips for creating good skills

- When it comes to teaching grammar, your main tool is to teach by example.
- Use words to teach nouns that can be demonstrated easily with pictures, such as "dog", "car", "tree", "city".
- Do not try to teach verbs, adjectives, etc. using words. Instead, use them in phrases.

<a id="markdown"></a>
## `(skill_name).md`

In order to create an introduction page for your skill, you need to create a [Markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown)
file with the same name as your .yaml file, but with the .md extension.

Place this .md file next to the .yaml file in your skills folder like so

```
courses/spanish-from-english/basics/skills
├── animals.md
├── animals.yaml
├── clothes.yaml
├── food.yaml
├── nature.yaml
├── plurals.yaml
├── professions.yaml
├── verb_plurals.yaml
└── verbs.yaml
```

You can use this Markdown file to create a short article about the skill the user is about to learn or practice.
This can be useful to explain grammatical concepts, gotchas and learning tips about the specific skill.

Commit message:

docs: document Mini-dictionary (#1472)
Includes information on multi-word terms.

docs/courses/skill.md, after:

# LibreLingo Documentation on Skill

A **Skill** resides below a Module within the course structure. It's the lowest element in the course hierarchy. It contains data regarding what questions LibreLingo will ask the users.

A skill is usually centered around a specific theme. This could be introducing a new grammar concept or just vocabulary to talk about a certain topic.

To get a better understanding, you can read the [course basics](README.md#basics).

---

**Confused?**
[Ask people](https://github.com/kantord/LibreLingo/discussions) on GitHub Discussions.

---

**Table of Contents:**
- [Tree structure](#tree-structure)
- [`(skill_name).yaml`](#yaml)
- [Data breakdown](#data-breakdown)
- [Creating new skills](#creating-new)
- [Examples of editing a skill](#example-edit)
- [Tips for creating good skills](#tips)
- [`(skill_name).md`](#markdown)

## Tree structure

A typical tree structure for skills under a module is as follows:

```
courses/spanish-from-english/basics/skills/
├── animals.yaml
├── clothes.yaml
├── food.yaml
├── nature.yaml
├── plurals.yaml
├── professions.yaml
├── verb_plurals.yaml
└── verbs.yaml
```

Here, `animals.yaml`, `clothes.yaml` and `food.yaml` etc. are skills. These skill files are kept inside a `skills` folder. The YAML files contain information about the skill (see below).

Skill yaml filenames should not have spaces and should be written in `slug-form`. The human friendly `Name` in the yaml however, can contain uppercase and spaces.

<a id="yaml"></a>
## `(skill_name).yaml`

As an example, let's look into `courses/french-from-english/basics/skills/hello.yaml` file which looks like this:

```yaml
Skill:
  Id: 33bfee7d-de74-4362-bf15-ce165add2dc8
  Name: Hello
  Thumbnails:
    - people1
    - woman1
    - man1

New words:
  - Word: l'homme
    Translation: the man
    Images:
      - man1
      - man2
      - man3

  - Word: la femme
    Synonyms:
      - la dame
    Translation: the woman
    Also accepted:
      - the female

Phrases:
  - Phrase: La femme dit bonjour
    Alternative versions:
      - la femme dit salut
    Translation: The woman says hello
    Alternative translations:
      - The woman says hi

  - Phrase: L'homme dit bonjour
    Alternative versions:
      - L'homme dit salut
    Translation: The man says hello
    Alternative translations:
      - The man says hi

Mini-dictionary:
  French:
    - dit: says
    - bonjour:
        - hello
        - hi
    - L'homme: the man

  English:
    - says: dit
    - hello:
        - bonjour
        - salut
```

### Data breakdown

**`Skill`** has information about the skill.
- `Skill > Name`: The human friendly name of the skill.
- `Skill > Id`: The ID of the course. **NOTE:** This should be unchanged if you're translating or editing existing course. Only if you're creating a new course, this should have a unique [UUID v4](https://www.uuidgenerator.net/version4) string. Details for which you can find [here](creating-courses.md).
- `Skill > Thumbnails`: A list of filenames of the thumbnails to be used on the course page to give an idea of the skill. A list of available files can be found on [`apps/web/static/images/`](https://github.com/kantord/LibreLingo/tree/main/apps/web/static/images). The names should be used without extension and without `_tiny` or `_tinier` parts. e.g. `banana2_tinier.jpg` should be written as `banana2`.

**`New words`** has a list of new words that the lesson asks about.
- `Word`: The word in destination language.
- `Synonyms`: A list of synonyms of the above word. (optional)
- `Translation`: Translation of the word in target audience's language.
- `Also accepted`: A list of synonyms of the `Translation` word above. (optional)
- `Images`: A list of images for the word that is defined under `Word` or `Translation` above. The image names has to be without extension and without `_tiny` or `_tinier` part.

**`Phrases`** has a list of sentences or phrases that the lession asks about.
- `Phrase`: The phrase in destination language. e.g. In this case, it's written in Spanish.
- `Alternative versions`: An alternative version of the above phrase. (optional)
- `Translation`: Translation of the phrase in target audience's language. e.g. In this case, it's written in English.

**`Mini-dictionary`** has a list of terms and meanings the user can view as a sort of "hint" if they are stuck. Entries are accessed by mousing over terms in an exercise, which brings up a tooltip with the corresponding term(s) in the other language. An entry is required for every term used in a skill.

Note that all `New words` are automatically added to the `Mini-dictionary`, in both translation directions, using the `Word` and `Translation` fields (`Synonyms` and `Also accepted` are ignored).

`Mini-dictionary` entries do not only apply to this skill; the meanings will apply course-wide and be merged with the same term in other skills, if applicable. This means that entries can be omitted when they already are present in other skills.

`Mini-dictionary` entries can define a term that spans multiple words, for example a phrase like "post office". For this to work, "post office" will need to be enclosed in curly braces -- `{post office}` -- wherever it appears in the skill. (Due to YAML, strings containing braces will need to be quoted.)

- `<destination language>`: A list of terms in destination language as key and meaning in target audience's language.
- `<target audience's language>`: A list of terms in target audience's language as key and meaning in destination language.

<a id="creating-new"></a>
## Creating new skills

Creating new skills is a matter of creating their corresponding YAML file.
That being said, there are a couple things to keep in mind:

- Skill yaml file should be inside a [module](module.md)'s `skills` directory.
- Skills should have an unique `Id`. Such identifiers can be generated using
  [this website](https://www.uuidgenerator.net/version4).
- Before skills will actually show up in the web app, they need to be added to
  a [`module.yaml`](module.md#yaml).

<a id="example-edit"></a>
## Examples of editing a skill

This is how you'd add a new alternative version to the
phrase "La femme dit bonjour":

```diff
Phrases:
  - Phrase: La femme dit bonjour
    Alternative versions:
      - La femme dit salut
+     - La madame dit salut
    Translation: The woman says hello
    Alternative translations:
      - The woman says hi
```

Keep in mind that when you add a new phrase, or a new version or translation
to a phrase, it's not automatically updating to the mini-dictionary. So you need to
add any new words there:

```diff
Mini-dictionary:
  French:
    - dit: says
+   - madame: lady
    - bonjour:
      - hello
      - hi
    - L'homme: the man
```

Also note, that the new words from each phrase listed under `Phrases` key need to be added for both the source and the target language in the `Mini-dictionary`. For example:

```yaml
Mini-dictionary:
  French:
    - dit: says
    - bonjour:
      - hello
      - hi
...
  English:
    - says: dit
    - hello:
      - bonjour
      - salut
```

<a id="tips"></a>
## Tips for creating good skills

- When it comes to teaching grammar, your main tool is to teach by example.
- Use words to teach nouns that can be demonstrated easily with pictures, such as "dog", "car", "tree", "city".
- Do not try to teach verbs, adjectives, etc. using words. Instead, use them in phrases.

<a id="markdown"></a>
## `(skill_name).md`

In order to create an introduction page for your skill, you need to create a [Markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown)
file with the same name as your .yaml file, but with the .md extension.

Place this .md file next to the .yaml file in your skills folder like so

```
courses/spanish-from-english/basics/skills
├── animals.md
├── animals.yaml
├── clothes.yaml
├── food.yaml
├── nature.yaml
├── plurals.yaml
├── professions.yaml
├── verb_plurals.yaml
└── verbs.yaml
```

You can use this Markdown file to create a short article about the skill the user is about to learn or practice.
This can be useful to explain grammatical concepts, gotchas and learning tips about the specific skill.
